100,000 followers, 15 million views in 60
days.
That's what I recently had to do for
one of our clients.
I actually managed to do all of that
and a little more, actually almost twice more,
in less than 45 days at a time
when everybody was just crying about how the
Instagram algorithm is broken and unfair.
And today I'm going to show you the
exact strategy, timeline, process, and takeaways, you're right,
you can use to get lots of views,
engagement, build a crazy community, and become the
number one creator in your industry.
So the first thing that we actually did
was to create a strategy with content pillars.
And we've talked about it a little bit
here on this channel before, but basically content
pillars are content pieces with similar structures, even
similar hooks, I would say.
And implementing a content pillar strategy the way
I'm going to show you right now, it
will just make so much of a difference
for your whole content game.
Because if done correctly, you'll first of all
bring some order into your content strategy.
Lots of people always say, I feel like
I'm all over the place.
That's exactly how you get rid of that.
Also, we're going to collect, using these pillars,
the data that we need for our data
-driven content framework, which is the framework that
we instal with all of our clients.
Because after a while, we're going to need
to assess which of these pillars is going
to work, which of them is not going
to work, and then maybe why, and then
we're going to switch some things out.
And this is how we're going to handle
ourselves up.
And this is exactly what we did with
this account.
We started doing heavy research into the niche,
into the industry, to see if there's maybe
something that we can already use to craft
our initial content pillars with.
And here's what happened.
We didn't find anything, or not a lot.
Most of the content that we figured out
was sort of like lower quality-ish kind
of content, garbage content, if you will.
And usually people get stuck at this exact
stage because they're like, well, there's nothing.
There's nobody like me.
I have no idea.
This is not going to work.
But looking a little bit deeper into all
of this, we still could see some small
data points.
Essentially, this low-quality, garbage kind of content
had some little spikes every once in a
while here and there.
So we could see, okay, there's something going
on.
Spikes in terms of reach and engagement still
was not the best.
With that being said, that thing alone was
not obviously enough to create a content pillar
in itself.
So we had to actually expand our research
a little bit.
And that's what we have to do quite
a lot recently with the way the algorithms
work and user preferences work.
Basically, what we did was we went back
to the whole avatars, and I usually call
them one-true fans, which is essentially your
knowledge that you have about your target audience.
Usually, or actually all the times, you have
to be 100%, 95% aware of who
your target audience is to create content that's
actually fitting for them.
And this is a step so many people
miss out on.
What we usually take a look at here
is, first of all, the demographics and what
we call the psychographics, which is essentially, why
do people want to watch your content?
What's going on inside of them with their
psyche, basically?
Why are they crying at night in bed?
What is the thing?
And how can you come in with your
content to actually serve them exactly that?
So we went back, we took a look
at the target audience, the demographics, again, as
well as the psychographics.
And we figured out, well, there's certain things
that these people want and certain other types
of content they might also consume on Instagram,
which doesn't have a lot to do exactly
with that niche that our client was in.
But if we expand the niche, actually, let
me show you something that I usually draw
a lot.
If we take a look at something like
that here, okay, usually people do research right
there with a very core audience of whoever
they serve.
So, for example, home fitness tips, photography, mobile
photography, stuff like this.
But for the research, we actually kind of
went right here, taking a look at the
target audience and what type of content works
well within them, had nothing to do with
the niche of our client.
And we kind of started to expand that
out a little bit.
It looks like an eye because it basically
is an eye, if you think about it.
And we did, lo and behold, find some
content frameworks that we thought might work well
also if we wrap it around our own
niche.
And basically, we found some patterns, both in
the sense of the content itself, like the
topics, but also the way how the videos
are being made.
So the length, for example, the style, and
also how they approach the whole content game.
And obviously, we found a bunch of potential
content pillars, and we created our content pillar
framework based around that research.
So here's how we set up our initial
content pillar strategy to kind of make sure
that we're going to get noticed by the
algorithm.
First of all, the way we figured it
out, and usually that's the case, all of
the content was real.
So all of the five pillars, we actually
set up five content pillars, like right here,
one, two, three, four, five.
Yeah.
And all of them were real.
And usually, most of them, the first four
of them were a mix between really short
videos that were snappy and to the point.
And that's one of the patterns that we
recognised with doing all that research.
All between, let's even say five to 15
seconds long, some of them were focused on
sort of going against the grain.
And was another pattern that I've noticed works
really well in that target audience, similar target
audience demographics and stuff like this.
So those were the first four pillars, you
know, iterations of that with similar hook structures
or actually different hook structures, different topics, but
all within, you know, I'm not going to
confuse you right now.
But also usually what I do is one
pillar is going to be a pillar that
is sort of like a testing pillar to
kind of play around with it, just to
stay fresh and, you know, on top of
the game.
And usually for that, I also expand my
research, not just on platform.
Let's say you create short form videos.
Obviously you're going to want to take a
look at Instagram, but also YouTube shorts and
take talk and just kind of compare and
take all the data in.
But what I also did was in this
case, take a look at the long form
YouTube stuff that we saw and also blogs
and Reddit in this case, which was very,
very interesting.
And I have noticed that there was sort
of like a big demand and it's longer
content, five, six, eight minute content, sometimes even
longer than that.
And obviously we can't do that right with,
with short form content.
So I kind of, and that's usually what
I do a lot.
So I just write that down and actually
do exactly the same thing.
The first four pillars, like the fifth pillar
was actually a mix between the first four
pillars.
I don't even know how to draw that
and a like five to 15 seconds long.
This one was a mix between all of
them, but just stretching the 60 seconds plus
Mark, just to see how this whole thing
is going with that audience.
Again, just based off of research and seeing
that there's demand for that outside, even outside
of Instagram.
So that was the first important thing actually
took a while, took two, three weeks to
kind of get that down, even just the
research phase.
And I would strongly advise you to do
a similar thing because your whole strategy and
the whole growth builds off of that.
Right.
And only after that, I started to be
to post.
So how can we get a new account
off the ground based off my, my data,
usually by posting a lot initially.
And usually the more you post, the better
it is.
So the second thing was to actually post
execute.
And first of all, I actually started to
post twice a day for around one to
two weeks.
That's what I sometimes recommend people.
Not all the time, depending on what's going
on.
Again, this one was a very, you know,
special client and the objective was to grow
as fast as possible because by the way,
they didn't really believe in social media and
I kind of wanted to prove it.
Now I've started posting twice a day.
Guess what's up within the first two weeks,
not a lot happened.
Actually, you know, just a little bit.
The first few posts got around a hundred
to 200, sometimes 300 views, still a hundred
views to 300 views.
Not bad considering we started with zero followers,
which basically means the algorithm is not dead,
right?
If you really get zero views, the algorithm
might have some issues, but yeah, you know,
it's just a normal thing to start off
slow.
Again, the important thing being the pillars plus
the frequency, you know, with your avatars in
mind will train the algorithm, figuring out who
your audience is, who they should serve your
content to.
And that's the can take sometimes months, you
know, usually not, but sometimes it can take,
you know, multiple weeks to months to make
the algorithm algorithm understand what your content is
about.
And that's the only objective that you have
right now.
You don't want to blow up right from
the beginning.
This can't be a lot of, actually a
lot of bad things happen if people blow
up right off the bat, which is actually
really important and more important than a lot
of people might think, because especially at the
beginning, a lot of people have sort of
a barrier, especially if you don't have a
lot of followers, because they see your followers
and they're like, I don't want to follow
because why, you know, it's just a small
account trying to do something.
So people really don't want to follow a
fresh account.
People really don't want to follow a low
follower account.
So what we need to do is we
sort of need to break through that barrier
somehow.
Ideally, that's how it's going to look afterwards.
And there's a few steps you can do,
and you should include in your strategy to
kind of break that barrier or that helped
you break that whole barrier.
First thing, obviously being social proof.
You know, social proof usually goes hand in
hand with followers, but we don't have that
because we, or we didn't have that because
we started fresh.
First of all, in terms of high production
quality content, right?
Good audio, good lighting, a nice set in
the background, nice framing and stuff like this.
But also in terms of the whole content
audience fit, right?
Content audience, if you remember the avatars, their
psychographics, their wants, their hopes, their dreams, their
fears, and your actual content, you know, this
needs to be aligned and on the same
level.
That alone will help you get followers, right?
But not only because there's a few more
things that we did because we saw after
about a week and a half of posting
twice a day, you know, we had a
few followers, a hundred followers or something, which
is also not bad, but it went really
slowly.
Like sometimes 20 followers, sometimes just one follower
a day and something like that, you know,
so on up and down.
So the next thing we had to do
was to take out even more steam, right?
That basically the barrier that people have.
And we made it clear in the bio
that this was a new account, a fresh
account.
And we also made clear what type of
content they could expect going forward in the
coming months and weeks.
Because people just like to know what they're
in for.
They see, okay, it's high quality, great content
to the point exactly the content that they
want.
Plus then they see, okay, it's a fresh
account.
So sometimes just that sort of reverse psychology
where you're like, well, I'm a new account.
I'm just trying to make things work.
Suddenly they flip kind of the notion, the
stance that they have against somebody with not
a lot of followers.
And then we also obviously implemented a story
highlights sort of strategy where we essentially brought
them through, you know, the same thing, making
them aware what's going on, what they can
expect, who you are, what you, what the
account was struggling with to kind of make
them understand, well, you were in it, you're
a professional content creator.
And that's what exactly what we did.
And that just that alone paired with the
content, obviously, of course, got us moving pretty
quickly.
And we started getting some steam, right?
Initially, like I said, we posted twice per
day for about two weeks, two and a
half weeks.
And then we actually reduced it to, you
know, just because it was a lot of
work.
So if we were to take a look
at the, you know, sort of like the
first two to three weeks, not a lot
happened.
Now, as we started to get a little
bit more steam, right?
Once we had hit like a hundred followers,
150 followers, we also started to make people
aware of our growth and our community expanding
in the stories and also in the story
highlights by featuring comments, actually replying to, first
of all, replying to almost every comment and
actually every comment at the beginning, but also
featuring some of the comments in, you know,
in the stories and kind of commenting on
the comments and stuff like this, kind of
just to get the whole community aspect going.
And then at some point, and this is
the most powerful weapon ever, you know, and
I shouldn't share this with the whole world
for free, but essentially it is do people
or whenever you get some content piece perform
a little better and there's just some negative
people around, share that negative comments in your
stories and kind of strike a conversation right
now.
It's even better.
We didn't have that back then because it
was like two months ago or something like
that, but right now people can also comment
on your stories.
So that's going to help you a lot
more with this whole thing, but share the
negativity and kind of start a conversation among
your followers.
And this is what actually really started to
propel things further and further.
And we could see things are starting to,
you know, move that was around, you know,
three weeks in something like that.
And because we knew what we're in for,
because the kind of pillars were set up,
the whole bio was structured in a way,
everything was structured in a way that eventually
we're going to have millions of views, ideally
fast.
This is what happened, right?
At some point, one of the pillars started
blowing up like crazy.
You know, I think three and a half
weeks in, we had a video blow up
to 700,000 views.
And when that happened, we started to ride
the whole wave, again, sharing this whole thing
in the stories, you know, that one of
the videos blowing up, that we were so
happy about that.
Started to share some comments, some negative comments
and stuff like this.
And the whole thing propelled us even more,
kind of lifted us into another algorithm here.
We've also talked about that here.
Now, this very first video that kind of
got 700,000 views was actually stuck at
around, you know, 300 views for a week.
Then it started slowly climbing and suddenly blow
up like this.
And all of that happened because essentially we
exploited the algorithm in a legal way because
we started to create natural binge sessions.
I think that's number four.
And that was the reason why we started
to blow up more and more to the
point of getting a million views almost on
every reel that we posted.
Crazy.
So let me show you how you can,
how we actually did that, you know, so
you can actually replicate it.
So going back to the pillars, usually the
way it works, you start off with creating
a few pillars, three, four, five pillars.
And after a while, you know, well, we're
going to kill this.
We're going to kill this because the views
are just not there.
And the metrics are not there for us,
which was the interesting thing.
The first four pillars were actually going pretty
strong.
The short videos, right?
The five to 15 second videos, obviously they
work well because we do that essentially daily
for all of our clients.
So we have a lot of data points.
We kind of know what works and what
doesn't work, but the actual propellant, like I
said, to getting these binge sessions was one
thing that kind of blew my mind as
well.
Let me show you.
Remember the first four pillars were actually the
short ones were performing really well, right?
Sort of from the beginning after a few
weeks, the long ones, what I told you
before, they were actually underperforming.
So at a surface level, we could see,
well, a lot of people might actually kill
them off because they were like, well, you
know, they get like 20% of the
views that the other ones get.
So let's kill it off.
But again, I had a hunch and I
had some data that content like this performed
well on other platforms, along from YouTube and
stuff like this.
And I actually could see still some patterns.
When we compare these two, the long pillar
actually had slightly higher comments and not just
higher comments, but the comments themselves, they were
more engaging, more in-depth, you know, longer
comments, stuff like this, despite just getting the
fraction of the views.
But I also saw another thing is that
the watch time was not really there with
us, right?
Even though it was a longer video, knowing,
you know, comparing it to other long, high
performing videos from other clients, watch time was
not really there.
By the way, I have a video where
I share all the benchmarks that we currently
have about watch times.
After this video, I would watch that.
But for me, this whole thing meant one
thing.
The pillar is cool and we should keep
using that pillar, but the hooks just suck.
And I actually have to admit, even right
now with 60, 90 second videos, even longer,
two minute, 30 videos, the hooks by far,
maybe even more than before, are the most
important part.
If you got that down, you can kind
of slack off on the rest of the
video, not really, but you get what I
mean.
So here's what we did to the whole
hook situation of these long videos.
And we actually did two things and then
I'll let you out into the real world
to implement what I just told you.
First of all, we really spent crazy amounts
of time on the hooks.
You know, I just put in crazy, but
you know what I mean?
Because I mean, you're really trying to get
our target audience and the psychographics down and
hitting the points that people want to hear,
that people are interested, right?
We went back to all of these videos
also and analysed which hooks, which were the
best performing ones and what kind of hook
structures that we have and what really got
people going.
So we really started to nail that down
with the longer videos as well.
And we usually spent lots of time on
the initial hook, thought it was perfect.
Take some time off, you know, an hour,
a day, come back only to figure out,
well, that hook just sucks.
We have to go back to the drawing
board and just make it better.
It hurt.
It was really hard.
Even for me, it was hard, you know,
but worth it.
By the way, if you're part of the
creative mentorship, we actually do that whole process
for you.
The Avatar thing, the whole research, the mapping
out the initial content pillars, basically the initial
heavy lifting that first of all, takes lots
of resources, I would say, in your brain,
but also a lot of guesswork.
And guess what?
We also have to do some guesswork, but
we have a lot of data points already.
So we actually do the heavy lifting for
you, which is going to, you know, free
up a lot of your time to actually
focus on the implementing all these things, but
we are also there.
So yeah, if you want somebody to do
that for you and do that with you,
down there is a link in the description.
But yeah, that was the one thing we
did with the hooks.
So crazy amounts of time thinking about the
hooks.
But the second thing was to actually trying
to get the binge sessions with the long
videos going on, right?
For short videos, 10-20 second ones, binge
sessions actually kind of come easily and automatically
just by having a pillar strategy because they
see, well, the similar hook structure, this is
a similar topic.
Good.
I will watch the other one.
For longer videos, people are not really invested,
you know, usually.
So we kind of have to help a
little bit with creating binge sessions.
And what we did was to actually, do
we still have space over there, kind of
started to create storylines among longer videos, right?
So basically a part one, part two, without
actually naming it part one, part two, and
essentially build a hook at the beginning of
a video.
And at the end of the video, we
put a second, very strong hook, similar to
that, what I call crazy hook at the
beginning to set up another sort of second
storyline, kind of to make him wonder what's
going to happen next or what's the next
step, right?
Basically a cliffhanger, like what the TV shows
do all the time.
So first of all, by doing that, by
having this crazy hook there and then having
a second hook, people watch all the way
until the end.
And then once they're at the end, they're
like, oh, no, there's another thing.
I want to now know the other thing.
And then people are going to wait sometimes
for your next video to drop.
You're going to get way more comments.
And once the video drops, people come, you
know, flooding to your content because they want
to get their, I don't know what, satisfied,
right?
And once we started doing that, in addition
to all of these other things, this is
when we really started to snowball the whole
algorithm thing all the way up.
And instead of just, you know, our goal
was 15 million views, we actually got around
28 million views within the first six to
seven weeks.
And yeah, this whole thing essentially changed the
whole business of my client.
Now, if you want us, you know, me
and my team to actually help you do
exactly that, again, we'll do some of the
things, or if you just want to learn
how to do that and implement that, visit
the link down below, fill in the application,
and we'll actually take a look at your
content right now.
We'll hop on a call and then we
will discuss actually where we can kind of
see potential trends and potential potentials.
And the other thing which I would strongly
advise you to do is to watch this
video next, because I'll show you some of
the strategies that work right now, working off
of what we just talked about, for example,
exactly the metrics, benchmarks and other sort of
hacks that we just implemented recently for some
clients that made them blow up similar to
this.
So watch this right now, don't sleep on
it, because usually these things change quite fast.